[Music]
fifteen mistakes that shorten the life
of your phone nowadays one can hardly
imagine life without a cell phone and it
happens quite often that our gadgets
start to act up just half a year after
we bought them it is frustrating but in
most cases we ourselves are to blame
let's face it we don't always handle our
devices properly when was the last time
you read the manual how to charge the
battery correctly what should you know
about protective cases why do these
phone batteries increase so quickly we
have 15 amazing tips that will make your
smartphone live along their life 15
recharge your battery more often
[Music]
do you know that you shouldn't charge
your cell phone battery until the energy
drops to zero well that's not true at
least today modern lithium-ion and
lithium polymer batteries have no memory
effect so you can recharge them without
waiting the reason for this is that many
manufacturers measure a battery's life
by the number of its full discharge
cycles and it's usually around 400 to
600 cycles so to increase your gadgets
battery life you should recharge it more
often the best option is to do it each
time the battery power indicator drops
to ten to twenty percent this will
increase the number of discharge cycles
up to 1,000 to 1,100 cycles fourteen
don't keep the battery charging all the
time do you know that batteries suffer
if you leave the charger plugged after
the battery is fully charged we got you
again it's not true either an inbuilt
controller stops the battery from taking
more current than necessary so there is
absolutely no risk of overcharging the
battery and destroying it however this
doesn't mean that you can constantly
keep your phone charging you need to let
the battery work on its own too that's
why you should try to keep the charge
between 40 and 80 percent to extend the
life of your battery number 13 don't buy
cheap chargers here's why it is unsafe
to buy cheap batteries they can be a
very low quality and might not have any
inbuilt controllers there have been
situations when a person was using a
non-native charger and it caused a fire
in the house and another terrible thing
that can happen if you use non-native
charges and cables is getting an
electric shock look we're not trying to
promote anything we just care about your
savings
number twelve be careful with ultra-fast
charges yes sometimes it's necessary to
charge your phone very quickly but we
recommend you to avoid using chargers
that claim to charge your battery full
and less than an hour at least check if
the manufacturer of your phone approves
using the charger you want to buy number
11 remove your protective case if your
smartphone has a bulky protective case
it might cause the device and it's
battery to overheat during a lengthy
recharging session you see there are so
many different cases in the market that
phone manufacturers can't take all the
precautions so if you are using a none
certified protective case you should
always remove it when you need to charge
the battery number 10 drain your battery
from time to time it is recommended to
discharge your phone's battery every
three months to 0% and then immediately
charge it to 100% to get rid of the
extremes a full charge / discharge
number nine avoid high temperatures a
high temperature is the worst thing you
can imagine for lithium-ion batteries
they totally can't stand overheating
that's why you should never expose them
to direct sunlight or put them near heat
sources modern cell phones have very
high quality screens but even they can't
stand direct sunshine if you expose the
screen to it the display color might
fade and if you have ever dropped your
cell phone you might know how much it
costs to have a screen replaced
sometimes it's easier to buy a new phone
number eight avoid cold temperatures
you might ask no heat no cold what am I
supposed to use my cell phone
well we're not saying that you
absolutely can't use your phone in cold
weather you can it's just that your
battery will probably not live as long
as it could
so if possible carry the phone in an
inner pocket of your coat or an outer
pocket but encased in a protective
covering low temperatures are harmful to
the battery because it needs more power
to keep itself warm enough to function
that's why you may have noticed that
batteries get drained much faster in
cold weather
number seven avoid bright wallpaper and
adjust screen brightness when checking
the time text messages or missed calls
you always look at the main display of
your phone a bright and colorful
wallpaper on your phone's main screen
can really eat up the battery hence it's
better to use black and white wallpaper
this will help conserve your smartphone
battery also try to lower the brightness
of your screen at least by 30 to 40
percent this amount of light is usually
more than enough to see all the
information on the display moreover it
will help to extend the life of your
battery dramatically when outside don't
use the max brightness level either it's
better to use the auto brightness
function to help you see the phone
screen even in the Sun plus it will turn
off after 15 minutes number 6
watch out for voltage fluctuations
at the approach of a thunderstorm never
charge your phone actually the same goes
for all the electrical appliances you
have it's not a myth during a
thunderstorm electric appliances can
experience the full wrath of nature
network filters are meant to protect
your devices from over voltage but they
would hardly withstand lightning its
power can reach thousands of gigavolts
number five clean the ports and wipe the
display because most of the modern cell
phones have touchscreens we've touched
them all the time that's why they get
pretty dirty over time to wipe the
screen use lint-free wipers and whatever
you do never use window cleaning liquids
they contain ammonia which can damage
the screen irrevocably moreover if you
carry your phone in the main compartment
of your handbag its ports can become
clogged with dust and small debris which
might cause problems with the connection
this is especially dangerous for the 3.5
mini jack the thing is the port itself
is pretty long so if some piece of dust
gets inside and you don't know about it
next time you will try to plug in your
headphones you will only make the piece
get even further in to remove the debris
turn off the phone and carefully clean
all the ports with the toothpick don't
forget to put a piece of soft lint-free
cloth on its end to avoid such
situations choose a compartment in your
handbag exclusively for keeping the
smartphone in it
number four keep the phone far from
water this might sound like an obvious
thing but still many phones die in water
if you drop your cell phone into a pool
or a sink the first thing you should do
after you get it out is to turn it off
and remove the battery if it's possible
of course remove all the SIM cards and
the memory cards that you have put the
contents in a bowl of rice and hope the
rice will absorb the water and if you
are lucky your phone will survive you
should also avoid taking your phone to
places with high humidity such as saunas
and steam rooms even if your phone is
water resistant number three handle your
phone carefully
don't put your cell phone on the
dashboard when driving constant moving
and bumping can cause a lot of damage it
doesn't happen quickly but all the
little things add up over time also try
not always to carry your phone in your
hands when the weather is hot due to the
high temperature the smartphone heats up
as well also the warmth of your hands
brings an even greater chance of the
phone battery overheating end as a
result running low number to avoid
software updates big companies release
major software updates around once a
year we don't recommend updating your
phone two years after this model was
released no we are not wearing any
tinfoil hats right now trust us the
performance will become worse and it's
not because the manufacturer is so
greedy and wants to make you buy the new
model it's just the technologies are
constantly developing and your hardware
stays the same they need to update the
software to enhance the functionality
which your phone might simply not
support that's why at least read user
reviews before you hit the Update button
the problem with such updates is that
it's either very hard or impossible to
go back to the previous version of the
software unless you are a mr. robot
hacker kind of person think carefully
before updating number one use cloud
storage
even if you have a lot of free space on
your hard drive it's better to use cloud
storage anyway this way your phone won't
be clogged with so much data that it
will perform much better and of course
something happens to your phone the data
won't be lost do you know any other tips
that we didn't mention in the video if
you do don't hesitate to share them in
the comments section below like this
video and send it to your friends and of
course click the subscribe button to
join us on the bright side of life